I wasn't always very excited about math
I was more excited about reading novels
and I thought I would become a writer
one day I got excited about it maybe
just as a challenge but then I realized
that it's really nice and that I enjoy
it
these were quite difficult times it was
during the war right after the world I
had a lot of opportunities and then to a
very good middle school and then high
school and I think I was the lucky
generation because I was a teenager and
things became more stable my main
interest is understanding structures you
can put on a surface there are different
ways of looking at it either you have a
surface with some additional geometric
structures or these kind of problems are
related to understanding the space of
such structures one very famous example
is if you have a billiard table and you
start from a point and you hit the ball
and then hits the boundaries and it
moves say forever you want to see the
trajectory of the ball would it cover
all your billiard table can you find
closed billiard paths and interestingly
enough this is an open question in
general if you don't put any stitches
are the angles of the polygon that you
started there are two types of questions
one is about you have a surface with a
geometric structure and you're trying to
understand some properties of this
geometric structure that you have the
other questions are related to you have
a surface and you have a geometric
structure and you start the forming this
geometric structure and then you want to
see what kind of surfaces you would get
some of the problem is like you know the
properties of a generic surface a random
surface but it's really hard to say
something about a single given geometric
structure on the surface some of the
work that I've done with different
collaborators shows that sometimes the
surfaces are very similar to the ones of
generic surface you can ask these
questions about hyperbolic surfaces or
these flat surfaces or different
geometric structures
I think these problems are important
because they are related to some other
problems even if you are interested in
higher dimensional manifolds one way of
dealing with that is trying to find some
nice surface inside of them you end up
learning a lot about other spaces and
properties of other actions so it gives
you a lot of information it's not only
the question but the way you try to
solve it
[Music]